# Linux Documentation 

<!-- toc -->

### Bash Aliases, Commands and  FIGNORE

Bash aliases make using the command line a more fluid experience by allowing you to execute a long command by typing a short alias. For example suppose that you are particularly lazy and  hate the having to `stage .`, `commit` and `push` changes across three commands then it is possible to define a single command to do all three at once, `git-lazy`. 

To define aliases we should :

1. Create an file at `~/bash_aliases.sh`. 

2. Add the line below code  to `~/.bashrc`, so that the commands you define in `~/bash_aliases.sh` will be loaded when `~/.bashrc` is sourced. 

```bash
if [ -f ~/bash_aliases.sh ]; then
    . ~/bash_aliases.sh
fi

```

3. Define your aliases in `~/bash_aliases.sh` using the syntax 

   ```bash
   alias <alias>='<command>'
   ```

   where `<command>` is the command you wish to shorten and `<alias>` is the short-hand alias you wish to assign it to.  You can also define bash functions here.

4. Finally, so that either you must source ``~/.bashrc``. This happens automatically everytime a terminal is opened. To avoid having to reopen the terminal you can source it manually with the command 

   ```bash
   source ~/.bashrc
   ```

As an example a alias to open `~/bash_aliases.sh` in our favourite text editor `gedit` then source `~/bash_aliases.sh` when we close `gedit` would be 

```bash
alias edit-aliases='
gedit ~/.bash_aliases.sh; 
printf "Sourcing ~/.bashrc \n";
source ~/.bashrc
'
```

The `git-lazy` command discussed above is better suited to a bash function owing the the necessity of a git commit message. 

```bash
function git-lazy() {
    git stage .
    git commit -a -m "$1"
    git push
}
```

Such a function uses the first argument as the commit message. For example `git-lazy 'commit message'` will stage all changes in the directory, commit them with the commit message `'commit message'`then push them to the relevant remote.  

The final thing you can do in `~/bash_aliases.sh` is set file paths to be ignored with terminal auto-complete. This is achieved with the  `FIGNORE` command followed by a colon separated list of file names to ignore. For example if we wished to ignore all the files autogenerated by the `latex` compiler the command would be	

```bash
FIGNORE=".log:.bbl:.aux:.blg:.toc:.out"
```

